Functions.
Let's see some examples.
I want to show you two examples now.
One will be relatively simple.
The other one is going to be a bit more complex because now I kind of feel you're getting into it.
I feel like you're ready and I'm going to be structuring files as we would in a real website.
So you can also get a feel as to how we link JavaScript with our HTML.
OK.
Example number one, I just want to have simple text when we click on that text, I want it to be replaced
with other text, and I want to do that by writing a function.
So, yeah, I've just got a blank visual studio code document.
All we need to do now is create a folder and let's call it our project, let's say it's.
Project under no function.
So is the old stuff project function in there?
Let's have an index.
Two months out, because that's where the pastor begins, we have to start here, and this is quite
a standard HTML template in our body that's create a header.
We'll call it function example.
Let's have a paragraph.
This is an example of changing text via a function.
Changing text by using a function.
Great, and if we click on our Go Live server.
And we display this in a website, this is what we see.
Function example, this is an example of changing tastes great, but if I click anyway, nothing happens.
So going back to our text editor, what do we need to do now?
Well, now we need to create a JavaScript file.
And let's say within this big folder structure, we've got another folder all public, and within that
folder you've got your script.
We we write all our JavaScript.
And now I want us to create a function that just replaces taste.
Remember what do we need in order to create a function?
Let's right when told JavaScript that we are writing a function, so we use the function keyword.
Now we need to name our function.
Let's just call it show, because we want to show takes.
Remember, we need the parentheses after the name just in case we want to pass through arguments.
And then we've got to actually write our code in between curly parentheses.
And all we want to do is we want a document not right.
Our function.
Has been.
Invoked.
Well done.
And these are function.
Again, we go back here.
It's not going to work because we haven't yet made the link between our index HTML page, clicking this
paragraph and our JavaScript file.
So let's do that.
Glenn Beck Yeah, it's good, our index file.
And once the process is gone through our entire HMO and all of that is loaded on screen, it's then
going to hit this script take and the script tag is going to reference a JavaScript file.
So it's in the public folder and within the public folder, it's in a file called Script Dot James.
So what's great about this is if we go to our website.
And we refresh still clicking doesn't do anything because we haven't told the browser that when we click,
we want that function to be executed.
Chicken this this is cool.
If we inspect this document and you go to your network tab and we refresh.
You can see that our skip file is being loaded.
If you click on the script file, you actually see our function that we've written within it.
You know, it's just a bit of interesting information for you.
Now let's make the link between thinking this text, and this takes changing.
So if we go back to our editor and we look at this paragraph text, this paragraph is where we want
our JavaScript to be triggered.
What's in here, we can define an on public event, and let's just execute our show function.
Bear in mind that with an unlikely event, anything in these quotation marks is JavaScript, so we don't
even have to wait for and show, for example, there's just an alert.
We can we can write JavaScript directly within these quotation marks.
And if we go back in, we click on.
Here is our alert.
So it's working.
If we go back to our file, we don't want to execute alert.
We actually want to execute our own custom function called show, which is in our JavaScript file over
here.
And if we go here and we click they we go, document or drop, the whole text has been replaced by our
function has been invoked.
Well done.
So I hope this is making sense.
We started with an index HTML file.
We've defined upheld wrath.
We've referenced our JavaScript file in the script tank and on that paragraph, we've defined it.
We need to split.
We want to execute our show function.
And the JavaScript engine knows what the actual function is because it is posted when it hit the script
tag at the bottom and it's going into this file and it's literally stored that function in memory.
How cool is this?
Is it becoming more intuitive?
So why don't we now look at a bit more of a tricky example?